---
layout: post #Do not change.
title:  "Why is childish bad, though?"
date:   2025-10-19 10:05:42 +0200
---

Typically, when we talk about someone being childish, it's usually not meant as a compliment. We say that kid just doesn't know how the world works.

Why is that bad? Why is it bad to not know "how the world works"?

It's not. Or, at least, that's what I'm trying to argue for now.

<!--more-->

That children or childish people don't know "how the world works" is beneficial to them, as they aren't constrained by it.

We, intellectuals even more so, tend to think that more knowledge naturally means more freedom. More freedom to do what one wants to do. More possibilities. This, however, is not necessarily true. There exists knowledge out there which limits one's creativity. Such knowledge is what we typically mean by ideology in a broad sense, limiting beliefs in other words.

This can be anything even besides politics. Just imagine that you went your whole life thinking that the only way to solve quadratic equations is via trial and error, but then towards the end of life someone tells you about the quadratic formula:

{% maincolumn 'assets/img/quadratic_formula.png' 'assumes a quadratic equation of form <em>f(x) = ax² + bx + c</em>' %}

Naturally, you wouldn't believe this and probably not adopt using it, as you default to the much harder way of trial and error.

People tend to think that the way they have always been doing it, is necessarily also the best way.{% sidenote 'tradition' "One might also call this tradition, but note that <em>Tradition is an illusion</em>"%}

So, I'd argue that being childish, i.e. not knowing "how the world works" is beneficial, is freedom, because only when you're not limited by what you have been told, the world is supposed to look like, can you work toward a brighter future.

Further, thinking that we're supposed to mold our children into something and instill them with our beliefs, is really nothing more than the discrimination of children, simply because they are just that: _children_. Such behavior is known as adultism.

Anyway, bye, don't forget to stay childish.

